---
layout: single
toc: true
meeting_time: 2026-01-08 16:00 UTC
title: CPANSec bi-weekly minutes
---

## Agenda

- 2026-01-08 @ 16:00 UTC.
- Meeting intended on Element Call (native video chat in Element client), but due technical issues among some of the attendees, we moved to Google Meet.

## Attending

- @jjatria, @sjn, @stigtsp, @thibaultduponchelle, @timlegge

## Minutes

- @sjn
  - Had long discussion with Michael
  - Attending various OpenSSF meetings
  - FOSDEM extra day for OpenSSF, will attend if first choices are not available

- @timlegge
  - Attended OpenSSF vulnerability disclosure meeting + CNA business as usual
  - Share details about pre-release disclosure information and signatories (private channel, private emails...)
  - 2025 retro ongoing

- @thibaultduponchelle
  - Reviewed more compression confusions technics with installers and PAUSE
  - Will maybe attend some OpenSSF meetings -> @sjn: "please announce yourself as CPANSec"
  - Demo new exploratory project related to CPAN Patch tooling: enthusiastic feedback! (but SBOM, but $VERSION...)
  
- @jjatria
  - Feedback from end of december meeting (@sjn, @thibaultduponchelle, @stigsp)
  - 2 different *incompatible* use cases for Purl, need to remove AUTHOR
  - Need to sync with giterlizzi
  - Wants to participate to retro, waiting for @giterlizzi
  - Signed pre release disclosure information
