---
layout: page
toc: true
meeting_time: 2025-03-12 17:00 UTC
title: CPANSec bi-weekly minutes
---

[TOC]

## Agenda & Meeting Details 2025-03-12
- 2025-03-12 17:00 UTC on #cpansec-discussion on Matrix

## 16:30 UTC – Pre-meeting socializing
-   Socializing & getting up to speed before the meeting starts properly
-   Discuss organizing projects, swimlanes and issues (...)

## 17:00 UTC – Meeting start

## Welcome
-   Meeting chair: 
-   Meeting scribe: 

### Attendees, absents & regrets
-   Attendees
    * 
-   Regrets
    * 

### Approve previous meeting minutes
*   Previous meeting minutes was approved by X, and merged by Y


## Agenda


### [Metadata & Software Bills of Materials](https://github.com/orgs/CPAN-Security/projects/1/views/2)

#### CPAN::Meta::Spec, Requirements and PURLs
- [ ] @sjn - started on writing an overview of issues to be resolved before PTS
- [ ] @sjn - picking up CPAN::Meta::Spec after FOSDEM
- [ ] @sjn - need to push GDT's PURL update to it's spec

#### SBOM/Supply Chain
- [ ] @tux - we need tools for working with SBOMs. *correct* SBOMs.
- [ ] @thibaultduponcelle - wants some feedback on his starjacking text (good enough to merge or drop?)
  - [ ] @sjn and @thibaultduponcelle - chat about this (set up meeting)
  
#### CycloneDX 1.7 Sustainability fields
- [ ] @sjn - starting on the final stretch - project- & ecosystem-supplied status fields.



### [Compliance, Guidance & Privacy](https://github.com/orgs/CPAN-Security/projects/9/views/2)

#### CPAN Author's Security Policy Guidelines
- [ ] @stigtsp - Minimal (TLDR) version of policy wanted
- [ ] @tux - Team document template wanted; Help needed



### [Security Outreach & Information](https://github.com/orgs/CPAN-Security/projects/12/views/3)

#### Recruitment
- [ ] @sjn - look at the next events for opportunities

#### Perl Toolchain Summit 2025
- [ ] @sjn - Create document on what CPANSec-relevant issues need to be decided on/discussed at PTS



### [CNA & Vulnerability Index](https://github.com/orgs/CPAN-Security/projects/10/views/2)

#### CNA Organization
- [ ] @sjn - Should CPANSec follow the [Node community's example](https://nodejs.org/en/blog/vulnerability/upcoming-cve-for-eol-versions) of issuing CVEs for EOL-versions of Perl?
  - not discussed
- [ ] @stigtsp - updates from MITRE to be announced
  - [ ] @timlegge - contact DAVEM, TONYC



### [Governance, Policy & Funding](https://github.com/orgs/CPAN-Security/projects/7/views/2)

#### Funding drive
- [ ] @sjn – who is open to do (funded) work? (contact @sjn)
    - @stigtsp 1d/w
    - @leont 
- [ ] @sjn - Explore options with Ovid's company

#### Eclipse ORC WG
- [ ] @sjn - Lots of progress on the [FAQ](https://github.com/orcwg/cra-hub/blob/main/faq.md) and [Inventory](https://github.com/orcwg/cra-hub/blob/main/inventory.md) docs, with lots of issues created.

#### CPAN Steward org
- [ ] @sjn - Discussions on TPRF slack #cpansec-steward; Mostly @sjn making noise; Contributors needed.
- [ ] @sjn has been asked by BSI and FSFE to help with perspectives and questions for a questionnaire. Discussions around this happens in #cpansecMichael Schuster
-steward on the TPRF Slack



### [Secure by Default](https://github.com/orgs/CPAN-Security/projects/15/views/2)

#### TLS/HTTPS/CSPRNG/DSA in core
- [ ] @leont - no progress

#### Ongoing vulnerabilities
- [ ] @timlegge - @robrwo working on RNG-related ongoing issues; CVE's to be registered by CPANSec CNA when it's active
- [ ] @timlegge - Crypt::Bcrypt issues around password length



### [Provenance & Supply Chain Security](https://github.com/orgs/CPAN-Security/projects/3/views/2)
- [ ] (Volunteers/funding needed)

### [Security Patch Tooling](https://github.com/orgs/CPAN-Security/projects/11/views/2)
- [ ] (Volunteers/funding needed)

### [Software Composition Analysis](https://github.com/orgs/CPAN-Security/projects/6/views/2)
- [ ] (Volunteers/funding needed)

### [Transparency Logs](https://github.com/orgs/CPAN-Security/projects/2/views/2)
- [ ] (Volunteers/funding needed)


## Any Other Business
- [ ] @stigtsp - CVE portal setup
- [ ] @stigtsp - domain name; we're using metacpan.org branding, but also own the cpansec.org domain. What to do with this?

### Upcoming events and deadlines
1. [ ] (Germany) [PTS 2025](https://perltoolchainsummit.org/pts2025/) - Thursday 2025-05-01 … Sunday 2025-05-04 in Leipzig, Germany
1. [ ] (Germany) [GPW 2025](https://act.yapc.eu/gpw2025/) - Monday 2025-05-12 … Wednesday 2025-05-14 in Munich, Germany. ([CfP is open](https://act.yapc.eu/gpw2025/cfp.html))
1. [ ] (USA) [TPRC 2025](https://www.perl.com/article/get-ready-for-the-2025-perl-and-raku-conference/) - Friday 2025-06-27 … Sunday 2025-06-29 in Greenville, SC, USA ([CfP is open](https://www.papercall.io/tprcgsp2025); Deadline: 2025-03-15)
1. [ ] (Norway) [Sikkerhetfesivalen 2025](https://sikkerhetsfestivalen.no/) - Monday 2025-08-25 … Wednesday 2025-08-27 in Lillehammer, Norway. ([CfP is open](https://sikkerhetsfestivalen.no/alle-nyheter/2024/11/22/hvordan-skape-et-vinnende-foredrag-for-sikkerhetsfestivalen-2025); Deadline: 2025-03-03)



## Operating changes
- [ ] @sjn - Since perl.social is dead, we have a new [CPANSec meeting calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/embed?src=691584e3db7d0a877b43482fc996eaae9984cf8ba0b769d5d00d042a32f9c66e@group.calendar.google.com) on Google. This calendar is public! Reach out to @sjn to have him update it. He'll do that until we find a suitable shared solution.
  - perl.social seems a bit unreliable :-( - maybe use another shared calendar solution? (e.g. cryptpad?)


## Next meeting date, time and location
- Next meeting is Wednesday 2025-03-26 @ 17:00UTC in #cpansec-discussion on Matrix (17:00 Europe/Amsterdam)

## 18:00 UTC – Meeting end

## 18:00 UTC – End
