# CPANSec bi-weekly meeting minutes 2025-12-11

- @jjatria, @sjn, @stigtsp, @thibaultduponchelle, @timlegge, Michael

## Attending

- [x] Introductions
  - Michael (north-of-nowhere, mjmc) introduced himself, and was welcomed!
- [x] @timlegge - year end wrap up for the CNA
  - @timlegge - @thibaultduponchelle wrote one last year, let's do it again
  - @timlegge - CVE focused
  - @sjn - other topics too?
  - @timlegge - yes. Unsupported modules & coordination issues (w/@stigtsp)
  - @sjn - CRA; CONTRIBUTING.yml; etc.
  - @thibaultduponchelle - SBOM progress; CPAN module patching; Policy templates;
  - @stigtsp - Details on CVEs; PackageURLs
    - Aim to be ready medio January 2026 (good for PTS sponsoring)
  - [ ] @timlegge - organizes
- [x] @sjn - FOSDEM
  - @sjn - I'll be there, bringing stickers, helping organizing the Perl/Raku community booth.
  - @sjn - orgas may be renting screen for micro talks
    - [ ] @sjn - if this happens, @sjn gives one about cpansec
- [x] @stigtsp - brief mention of showstoppers for PackageURL adoption in CVE and nixpkgs
  - @stigtsp - The current purl spec requires an author, but not a version. CVE spec requires at most one purl per vulnerability, which means CPAN purls don't match well since they atm. require an author.
  - @jjatria - this seems solvable, let's put together a meeting where we solve it.
  - @stigtsp - yes, let's also define the problem space
  - [ ] @jjatria - organizes a meeting where we discuss this
  - @jjatria - let's try for a deadline at ultimo January
  - @stigtsp - we need to get this done ASAP
- [x] @stigsp - PTS?
  - @thibaultduponchelle - Second round of invites done; Venue search ongoing; we're invited!
- [x] AOB
  - @stigtsp - Happy holidays!

## Next meeting

- [ ] @sjn - next meeting in 4 weeks exactly, January 8, 2026 @ 16:00 UTC
